you
this lecture is about the topic mining
and analysis we're going to talk about
its motivation and past definition in
this lecture we're going to talk about
different the kind of mining tasks as
you see on this roadmap we have just
covered mining knowledge about the
language namely discovery of water
associations such as parity grammatical
relations and cinematical relations now
starting from this lecture we're going
to talk about mining another kind of
knowledge which is content mining and
trying to discover knowledge about the
main topics in the text and we call that
topic mining and analysis in this
lecture we're going to talk about its
motivation and a task definition so
first let's look at the concept of topic
so topic is something that we all
understand I think but it's actually not
that easy to formally define me roughly
speaking topic is the main idea
discussing text data and you can think
of this as a theme or subject of the
discussion or conversation it can also
have different granularities for example
we can talk about the topic of a
sentence a topic of the article topic of
a paragraph or the topics of all the
research articles in the digital library
and so different granularities of topics
obviously have different applications
now indeed there are many applications
that require discovery of topics in text
and then analyze them here are some
examples for example we might be
interesting knowing what our Twitter
users talking about today are they
talking about ambient sports or talking
about some international events etc or
we are interested in knowing about
research topics for example one might be
interested in know
knowing what are the current research
topics in data mining and how are they
different from those five years ago now
this involves discovery of topics in
there are mining literature's and also
we want to discover topics in today's
literature and those in the past and
then we can make a comparison we might
be also interested in knowing what do
people like about some product like
iPhone 6 and what do they dislike and
this involves discovering topics in
positive opinions about iPhone 6 and
also negative reviews about it or
perhaps we're interested in knowing what
our major topics debated in 2012
presidential election and all these have
to do with discovering topics in text
and analyzing them and we're going to
talk about a lot of techniques for doing
this in general we can view topic as
some knowledge about the world
so from texted are we expected to
discover a number of topics and then
this topic is generally provided
description about the world and it tells
us something about the world about the
product about person etc now when we
have some non text data then we have we
have more context for analyzing the
topics for example we might know that
time associative is the text data or
locations where the text set up were
produced or the authors of text or the
sources of the text etc all such a
manner that our context variables can be
associated with the topics that we
discover and then we can use these
context variables to help us analyze
patterns of topics for example looking
at topics all the time we would be able
to discover whether there's a training
topic or some topics might be fading
away similarly looking at topics in
different locations when we might know
some insights about people's opinions in
different locations so that's why mining
topics
very important now let's look at the
tasks of topic mining and analysis in
general it would involve first
discovering a lot of topics in this case
K topics and then we also would like to
know which topics are covered in which
documents to what extent so for example
in top team in the one we might see that
topic one is covered a lot
topic 2 and public key are covered with
a small portion and other topics perhaps
are not covered document - on the other
hand cover the topic a - very well but
they did not cover topic 1 at all and it
also covers topic a to some extent it's
separate right so now you can see there
are generally two different tasks or
subtasks the first is to discover K
topics from a collection of text data
what are these K topics ok major topics
in the text later the second task is to
figure out which documents cover which
topics to what extent so more formally
we can define the problem as follows
first we have as input a collection of n
text documents here we can denote the
text connection as C and D know the text
article as the I and we generally also
need to have as input the number of
topics okay but there may be techniques
that can automatically suggest and
number of topics but in the techniques
that we will discuss which are also the
most useful techniques we often need to
specify a number of topics now the
output would then be the K topics that
we would like to discover in order has
fira Sabourin throws theta sub k also we
want to generate the coverage of topics
in each document d sub I and this is
denoted by PI sub I J and PI sub I J is
the probability of document D sub i
covering topical theta sub J so
obviously for each dock
we have a set of such values to indicate
to understand that the document covers
each topic and we can assume that these
probabilities sum to one because a
document won't be able to cover other
topics outside the topics that we
discussed that we discover so now the
question is how do we define theta sub I
how do we define the topic now this
problem has not been completely defined
and here we define what is exactly theta
so in the next few lectures we're going
to talk about different ways to define
theta